you
as you can see I was born without
fingers on my right hand and also my
right leg was several inches shorter
than my left one
they broke the bones in the leg then
they screwed metal spikes into the bone
it has not only spikes but wires that go
all the way through the leg to stabilize
it I have to walk on it I have to
stretch it out so that my muscles don't
just get all atrophied people always ask
me does it hurt yes it does but I focus
on what I can do not on what I cannot do
I want to talk with you guys about
overcoming obstacles
everybody has obstacles a disability a
hurdle we face a choice let the obstacle
overcome you or overcome the obstacle
maybe some of you have heard of Jim
Abbott he was a major league baseball
player he won a gold medal in the
Olympics he played for the Yankees the
Angels but he threw a no-hitter and he
only had one arm when he was a kid he
came home mad one time and told his dad
the kids won't let me play baseball
because I only have one hand his dad
replied no the kids won't let you play
baseball because you stink at baseball
you can't change the fact that you only
have one hand but you can change the
fact that you stink
so his dad began to practice with him
and he got good he overcame obstacles
teams would try to exploit his weak side
they would try to bunt to the side that
he had a missing arm but they never
succeeded because he practiced and
practiced fielding bunts to that side
there is no dishonor and having a
disability and I won't let anyone dis my
ability but I don't want anyone's pity
either I will not use the obstacles I
faced as an excuse for having a pity
party I will practice harder play harder
and push myself harder to keep getting
better
last season I started on my varsity high
school basketball team as a freshman and
I won Rookie of the Year I was one of
the top scorers on the team
one of the things that I find funny is
that people judge me by appearance they
say oh look at this one-handed whitey
with the limp I don't want him on my
team you know but what they don't know
is that I don't just have a disability I
have an ability one of my favorite
moments from this last season was we
played a team that we had never played
before and when the game started you
could tell that they were dissing my
disability I mean they they
double-teamed our tallest player they
just were playing really soft on me and
they just you could tell they thought
what can this guy with one hand do so
they left me open for a three I made
that one they left me open for another
one I made that one then they started to
get frustrated so they actually fouled
me I made both free throws and they
called timeout and as we were in the
huddle I could hear the other coach
yelling at his players about me
they went from not covering me at all to
double-teaming me it's all about
overcoming obstacles it's true I have a
disability but so do you I also have an
ability so do you everyone has obstacles
to overcome some are visible like mine
some are less visible maybe your
obstacles that you come from a poor
neighborhood maybe people say you'll
never amount to anything
prove them wrong maybe your obstacles
that you have a learning disability and
people think that you're dumb
prove them wrong maybe people judge you
because of the color of your skin or
your family background prove them wrong
I know a lot of people who take one look
at me and judge me they say oh that kid
can't be any good at basketball one leg
one hand if someone thinks you can't
overcome the obstacles prove them wrong
you